_portfolio/text.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Text for C++
feature-img: "assets/img/pexels/adult-art-asia-engin-akyurt.jpg"
img: "assets/img/pexels/adult-art-asia-engin-akyurt.jpg"
date: January 27th, 2020
tags: [C++, Unicode, Text, 🚌, ⌨️]
---


There does not exist a good, flexible, backwards-compatible solution for Text in C++. Choosing a library either requires taking the entire thing (Qt), getting involved in a very complex interface (ICU), dealing with sometimes limiting API choices (CopperSpice), or having a well-done but very opinionated design set (the proposed-for-Boost Boost.Text library).

Where is the standard library-friendly, maximum performance solution for handling text encoding and decoding in C++ and C?

This project is the push to reach that goal.




# Current Funding

The project has the goal of being fully funded by mid 2020 so that all users can have a high quality solution of text that is not kept within one company or ecosystem, but ported to the Standard Library for use by everyone. If you want the proposal, please e-mail me.

Funding goes toward:

- Funding development;
- Targeting specific features;
- Covering general library support;
- Covering specific company or vendor support;
- and, Attending WG14 (C Committee) and WG21 (C++ Committee) meetings.


Specialized solutions for C++11 (or C++03) can be made. If you, your company or organization is interested in helping or need special features/early access to features listed below, please [get in touch](shepherd@soasis.org).



## Funding Goals and Progress

Below are the published funding goals. Sponsors may pay into specific goals or, if given a large enough donation, create a new goal entirely; otherwise, funding falls into the categories in a top-to-bottom, linear fashion. Goals marked (_Stretch_) are not quite bare-minimum necessary, but would be absolutely wonderful to accomplish!

- Bootstrap Initial Development, to get library tested and released;
- Reach Full-Time Text Development to reach 2020 Goal;
- Cover C Standard Library development to reach maximum amount of users with basic functionality;

_Current Goal: Bootstrap Initial Development_

Current Goal Total: $1,348.87 USD / $24,000.00 USD

[ ⣿⣿⣤⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]




# Technical Details

The work is ongoing.

The C++ library submodules and builds on top of the C one for fast-path functions. Internally, the C library is implemented with C++ and -- hopefully soon in the future -- vectorized by hand or with [SIMD/`std::experimental::simd`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/experimental/simd/simd). The principals and inner workings of the implementation are detailed in a series of talks, slides and posts:

1. Meeting C++ 2019  
   _Catching ⬆️: Unicode for C++ in Greater Detail - 2 of 5_  
   Saturday, November 16th, 2019  
   Berlin, Germany  
  - [Abstract](https://meetingcpp.com/2019/Talks/items/Catching_________Unicode_for_Cpp_in_Greater_Detail___2_of_5.html)
  - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQHofyOgQtM)
  - [Slides](/presentations/unicode/Meeting C++/2019/2019.11.16 - Catching ⬆️ - Unicode for C++ in Greater Detail - ThePhD - Meeting C++.pdf)

2. CppCon 2019  
   _Catching ⬆️: The (Baseline) Unicode Plan for C++23_  
   Friday, September 20th, 2019  
   Aurora, Colorado  
  - [Abstract](https://cppcon2019.sched.com/event/7823aebeede8d50e1daa70b5c22ab0a4)
  - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BdUipluIf1E)
  - [Slides](/presentations/unicode/CppCon/2019/2019.09.20 - Catching ⬆️ - The (Baseline) Unicode Plan for C++23 - ThePhD - CppCon 2019.pdf)
  - [Comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/de1jy9/cppcon_2019_jeanheyd_meneide_catch_unicode_for_c23/)

3. Study Group 16 - Text and Unicode  
   _A Rudimentary Unicode Abstraction_  
   Wednesday, March 7th, 2018  
   Boston, Massachusetts
  - [Slides](docs/presentations/2018.03.07%20-%20a%20rudimentary%20unicode%20abstraction%20-%20ThePhD%20-%20SG16%202018.pdf)

The current spread of goals is as follows.


### Ⅰ: Core Text Utilities [ 7% ] 

- Encoding objects for one-by-one encoding and decoding.
  - `utf8`, `utf16`, `utf32`, `narrow_execution` and `wide_execution` Encoding Object types;
  - and, `basic_utf8<char_type>`, `basic_utf16<char_type>`, and `basic_utf32<char_type>` types.
- `decode(...)`, `encode(...)`, and `transcode(...)` functions.
- `decode_view<encoding, ...>`, `encode_view<encoding, ...>`, and `transcode_view<encoding, ...>` range types.

[ ⣿⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅱ: Normalization Forms [ 0% ]

- All four Unicode Normalization Forms, as specified in [UAX #15](https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/).
  - Canonical Form `nfc`
  - Canonical Form `nfd`
  - Compatibility Form `nfkc`
  - Compatibility Form `nfkd`
- `text_view<Encoding, NormalizationForm, Container>`
- `text<Encoding, NormalizationForm, Container>`

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅲ: User Extensibility Hooks for (User) Encodings [ 0% ]

- `text_encode`, `text_decode`, `text_transcode`, and `text_transcode_one` free function ADL hooks

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅳ: Byte Buffers and Streaming [ 0% ]  

- `encoding_scheme<Encoding, endian, Byte>` - transformative encoding that always presents its code unit type as `Byte` (defaults to `std::byte`).
- `incomplete_handler<Handler>` - finish incomplete sequences and execute underlying handler if sequence is incomplete.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅴ: CJK Encoding Tests [ 0% ]

- Implement `gb18030`, the official government Unicode Transformation Format encoding of PRC.
- Implement legacy `shift_jis`/`euc_jp`/`iso2022_jp` legacy encodings.
  - priority goes to `shift_jis`/`euc_jp` as it encodes more traffic.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅵ: (_Stretch_) Enhanced Execution Encoding [ 0% ]

- Reach into platform-specific functions to rip out guts of platform's current encoding to ensure preservation of Unicode in:
  - `narrow_execution`
  - `wide_execution`

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅶ: (_Stretch_) Hyper-Scrutinized Vectorization Implementation [ 0% ]

- Apply vectorization techniques for conversions to pairs of encodings in `ascii`, `utf8`, `utf16`, and `utf32`.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅷ: (_Stretch_) C Library for Span-Based Conversions [ 0% ]

- As detailed in proposal [N2440](/vendor/future_cxx/papers/source/C - Efficient Character Conversions.html): C functions for fast conversions.
- Cover INCITS/ANSI fees.
- Take functionality through all of WG14, put into C Libraries such as:
  - `musl`.
  - `glibc`.
  - Potentially: new LLVM `libc`.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅸ: (_Stretch_) WHATWG Encoding Functionality [ 0% ]

- The WHATWG (https://whatwg.org/) specifies many encodings which are required to support the web.
- Covers developing encodings to handle [encodings covered by the WHATWG Living Standard](https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/).

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅹ: (_Stretch_) Strong Exception Guarantee [ 0% ]

- `std::text<Encoding, NormalizationForm, Container>`: strong exception guarantee on all applicable operations.
- `noexcept` container support for `std::text` and `std::text_view`
  - `noexcept` allocator support.
  - Containers operations are made conditionally `noexcept` if possible based on the allocator and movability of the inserted types.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]

Commit message:

New post about Pure Virtual C++.

_portfolio/text.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Text for C++
feature-img: "assets/img/pexels/adult-art-asia-engin-akyurt.jpg"
img: "assets/img/pexels/adult-art-asia-engin-akyurt.jpg"
date: May 1st, 2020
tags: [C++, Unicode, Text, 🚌, ⌨️]
---


There does not exist a good, flexible, backwards-compatible solution for Text in C++. Choosing a library either requires taking the entire thing (Qt), getting involved in a very complex interface (ICU), dealing with sometimes limiting API choices (CopperSpice), or having a well-done but very opinionated design set (the proposed-for-Boost Boost.Text library).

Where is the standard library-friendly, maximum performance solution for handling text encoding and decoding in C++ and C?

This project is the push to reach that goal.




# Current Funding

The project has the goal of being fully funded by mid 2020 so that all users can have a high quality solution of text that is not kept within one company or ecosystem, but ported to the Standard Library for use by everyone. If you want the proposal, please e-mail me.

Funding goes toward:

- Funding development;
- Targeting specific features;
- Covering general library support;
- Covering specific company or vendor support;
- and, Attending WG14 (C Committee) and WG21 (C++ Committee) meetings.


Specialized solutions for C++11 (or C++03) can be made. If you, your company or organization is interested in helping or need special features/early access to features listed below, please [get in touch](shepherd@soasis.org).



## Funding Goals and Progress

Below are the published funding goals. Sponsors may pay into specific goals or, if given a large enough donation, create a new goal entirely; otherwise, funding falls into the categories in a top-to-bottom, linear fashion. Goals marked (_Stretch_) are not quite bare-minimum necessary, but would be absolutely wonderful to accomplish!

- Bootstrap Initial Development, to get library tested and released;
- Reach Full-Time Text Development to reach 2020 Goal;
- Cover C Standard Library development to reach maximum amount of users with basic functionality;

_Current Goal: Bootstrap Initial Development_

Current Goal Total: $2,050.16 USD / $24,000.00 USD

[ ⣿⣿⣿⣿⣤⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]




# Technical Details

The work is ongoing.

The C++ library submodules and builds on top of the C one for fast-path functions. Internally, the C library is implemented with C++ and -- hopefully soon in the future -- vectorized by hand or with [SIMD/`std::experimental::simd`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/experimental/simd/simd). Document trails:

- [Latest Draft C++](/vendor/future_cxx/papers/d1629)
- [Latest Draft, C](/vendor/future_cxx/papers/source/n2440)


The principles and inner workings of the implementation are detailed in a series of talks, slides and posts:

1. Meeting C++ 2019  
   _Catching ⬆️: Unicode for C++ in Greater Detail - 2 of 5_  
   Saturday, November 16th, 2019  
   Berlin, Germany  
  - [Abstract](https://meetingcpp.com/2019/Talks/items/Catching_________Unicode_for_Cpp_in_Greater_Detail___2_of_5.html)
  - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQHofyOgQtM)
  - [Slides](/presentations/unicode/Meeting C++/2019/2019.11.16 - Catching ⬆️ - Unicode for C++ in Greater Detail - ThePhD - Meeting C++.pdf)

2. CppCon 2019  
   _Catching ⬆️: The (Baseline) Unicode Plan for C++23_  
   Friday, September 20th, 2019  
   Aurora, Colorado  
  - [Abstract](https://cppcon2019.sched.com/event/7823aebeede8d50e1daa70b5c22ab0a4)
  - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BdUipluIf1E)
  - [Slides](/presentations/unicode/CppCon/2019/2019.09.20 - Catching ⬆️ - The (Baseline) Unicode Plan for C++23 - ThePhD - CppCon 2019.pdf)
  - [Comments](https://www.reddit.com/r/cpp/comments/de1jy9/cppcon_2019_jeanheyd_meneide_catch_unicode_for_c23/)

3. Pure Virtual C++ 2020  
   _Lucky 7 - Designing Text Encodings for C++_  
   April 30th, 2020  
   Virtual Conference  
   - [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w4qYf2pvPg4)
   - [Slides](/presentations/unicode/Pure%20Virtual%20C++/2020/Lucky%207%20–%20Designing%20Text%20Encodings%20for%20C++.html)

4. Study Group 16 - Text and Unicode  
   _A Rudimentary Unicode Abstraction_  
   Wednesday, March 7th, 2018  
   Boston, Massachusetts
  - [Slides](/presentations/unicode/sg16/2018.03.07%20-%20ThePhD%20-%20a%20rudimentary%20unicode%20abstraction.pdf)

The current spread of goals is as follows.


### Ⅰ: Core Text Utilities [ 16% ] 

- Encoding objects for one-by-one encoding and decoding.
  - `utf8`, `utf16`, `utf32`, `narrow_execution` and `wide_execution` Encoding Object types;
  - and, `basic_utf8<char_type>`, `basic_utf16<char_type>`, and `basic_utf32<char_type>` types.
- `decode(...)`, `encode(...)`, and `transcode(...)` functions.
- `decode_view<encoding, ...>`, `encode_view<encoding, ...>`, and `transcode_view<encoding, ...>` range types.

[ ⣿⣿⣿⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅱ: Normalization Forms [ 0% ]

- All four Unicode Normalization Forms, as specified in [UAX #15](https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/).
  - Canonical Form `nfc`
  - Canonical Form `nfd`
  - Compatibility Form `nfkc`
  - Compatibility Form `nfkd`
- `text_view<Encoding, NormalizationForm, Container>`
- `text<Encoding, NormalizationForm, Container>`

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅲ: User Extensibility Hooks for (User) Encodings [ 0% ]

- `text_encode`, `text_decode`, `text_transcode`, and `text_transcode_one` free function ADL hooks

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅳ: Byte Buffers and Streaming [ 0% ]  

- `encoding_scheme<Encoding, endian, Byte>` - transformative encoding that always presents its code unit type as `Byte` (defaults to `std::byte`).
- `incomplete_handler<Handler>` - finish incomplete sequences and execute underlying handler if sequence is incomplete.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅴ: CJK Encoding Tests [ 0% ]

- Implement `gb18030`, the official government Unicode Transformation Format encoding of PRC.
- Implement legacy `shift_jis`/`euc_jp`/`iso2022_jp` legacy encodings.
  - priority goes to `shift_jis`/`euc_jp` as it encodes more traffic.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅵ: (_Stretch_) Enhanced Execution Encoding [ 0% ]

- Reach into platform-specific functions to rip out guts of platform's current encoding to ensure preservation of Unicode in:
  - `narrow_execution`
  - `wide_execution`

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅶ: (_Stretch_) Hyper-Scrutinized Vectorization Implementation [ 0% ]

- Apply vectorization techniques for conversions to pairs of encodings in `ascii`, `utf8`, `utf16`, and `utf32`.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅷ: (_Stretch_) C Library for Span-Based Conversions [ 0% ]

- As detailed in proposal [N2440](/vendor/future_cxx/papers/source/C - Efficient Character Conversions.html): C functions for fast conversions.
- Cover INCITS/ANSI fees.
- Take functionality through all of WG14, put into C Libraries such as:
  - `musl`.
  - `glibc`.
  - Potentially: new LLVM `libc`.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅸ: (_Stretch_) WHATWG Encoding Functionality [ 0% ]

- The WHATWG (https://whatwg.org/) specifies many encodings which are required to support the web.
- Covers developing encodings to handle [encodings covered by the WHATWG Living Standard](https://encoding.spec.whatwg.org/).

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]


### Ⅹ: (_Stretch_) Strong Exception Guarantee [ 0% ]

- `std::text<Encoding, NormalizationForm, Container>`: strong exception guarantee on all applicable operations.
- `noexcept` container support for `std::text` and `std::text_view`
  - `noexcept` allocator support.
  - Containers operations are made conditionally `noexcept` if possible based on the allocator and movability of the inserted types.

[ ⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀⣀ ]
