pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: 📜 About
permalink: /about/
feature-img: "assets/img/pexels/circuit.jpeg"
tags: [about, hello, 👋]
---

# Hey there!

My name is JeanHeyd Meneide. I am a Software Engineer and the Project Editor for ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22 WG14 - Programming Languages, C. I specialize in ergonomic library design and performance tuning. My favorite work includes programming that enables even the newest programmers to produce high-quality code that pushes them and others towards the pit of success.

You can send inquiries for work to [Shepherd](mailto:shepherd@soasis.org) of Shepherd's Oasis!

In my free time I try to write and draw, which has naturally led me to creating this place here! I'll be posting... well, anything and everything that comes to mind that I think might be worth sharing. Feel free to poke around and examine things!


# Credit

The adorable favicon is the Twitter Sheep Emoji from [Twemoji 2.7](https://github.com/twitter/twemoji). The avatar is something I drew by hand!

Commit message:

Site updates
- Fix up 2 C papers
- Fix up portfolio text
- Add back social links

pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 📜 About
permalink: /about/
feature-img: "assets/img/pexels/circuit.jpeg"
tags: [about, hello, 👋]
---

# Hey there!

My name is JeanHeyd Meneide. I am a Software Engineer and the [Project Editor for ISO/IEC JTC1 SC22 WG14 - Programming Languages, C](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg14/www/contacts). I specialize in ergonomic library design and performance tuning. My favorite work includes programming that enables even the newest programmers to produce high-quality code that pushes them and others towards the pit of success.

Add me on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/thephd/), follow me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/__phantomderp/), and keep track of what I'm doing on [GitHub](https://github.com/ThePhD)!

You can send inquiries for work to [Shepherd of Shepherd's Oasis](https://soasis.org/contact)! Don't forget to [follow the company on LinkedIn as well](https://www.linkedin.com/company/shepherdsoasis) and [at GitHub](https://github.com/soasis). (You should also totally bother Shepherd for nudging me back onto LinkedIn as well by [connecting and following them](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shepherdsoasis-founder/), too!)

In my free time I try to write and draw, which has naturally led me to creating this place here! I'll be posting... well, anything and everything that comes to mind that I think might be worth sharing. Feel free to poke around and examine things!


# Credit

The adorable favicon is the Twitter Sheep Emoji from [Twemoji 2.7](https://github.com/twitter/twemoji). The avatar is something I drew by hand!
